Let's continue working on our authentication flow.
In this video, I want to give you a quick overview of exactly what we are going to have to do inside
of our routes, sign updates, route handler.
So we've got a little bit of code inside of here, but it's mostly all related to doing some of that
validation stuff and whatnot.
All right.
So a quick diagram just to make sure it's really clear what we have to do.
This is similar to a diagram we looked at previously, but I filled in a couple of steps that we have
to take care of inside of that root handler.
So at some point in time, our React application is going to make requests to our service.
The goal this request is going to be to sign up.
So inside of that request, we're going to have some email and password.
We're then going to take that email and password and do a couple of checks with it in order to sign
this user up to our application.
The first thing we need to do is check to see if a user has ever signed up with this email address before,
because we're going to make sure that all the different users inside of our app all have unique email
addresses.
So if this email address is already in use, we need to stop right away and respond with an error and
tell the React application.
Sorry, this email is in use.
To check and see if the email is already in use.
We need to take a look at all the users we have saved to our MongoDB database.
Inside of our database, we are going to have a collection of users.
Remember, a collection of users is essentially a big object that contains a lot of little objects.
Those little objects, each of them is going to represent one user.
In order to access that collection, we have to create a mongoose user model.
So we're going to create a user model that's going to govern access to that collection and help us run
queries or create new users or whatever else.
So when we say that, we need to check and see if a user with this email already exists, that really
means that we're going to run a query on our database and see if a user with that email is already inside
there and we run that query through this mongoose user model.
If there is not already a user with that email, then we're going to move on to the next step.
We never store passwords in plain text.
When we receive a password inside the signup request, it will be a plain text password.
Rather than storing that plaintext password inside of our database, we have to hash it ahead of time.
If you are not familiar with password hashing, that is okay.
We'll have a quick follow up video that describes the entire hashing and password storage process.
Long story short, we're going to do a little bit of processing on that password before we restore it
inside.
After that, we're going to create a new user and save them to a MongoDB database.
And again, that's going to happen through our mongoose user model.
At that point in time after we successfully save the user, whoever made the request to us is now considered
to be logged in.
So to reflect that, we're going to send back to our React application a cookie or a JSON web token
or something that indicates that this user is now signed in and authenticated.
We'll have a follow up video to also discuss the actual authentication mechanism that we're going to
end up using.
Right now, we're going to focus on these first couple of steps.
All these initial steps really rely upon creating a mongoose user model so we can work with some data
inside of our Mongo database.
That's what we're going to really focus on right now.
We need to create a mongoose user model.
Now, I got just unfortunately, a little bit of bad news for you.
We are using Mongoose and we are also using TypeScript.
It turns out that TypeScript and Mongoose do not really cooperate all that well.
I'll be totally honest with you.
There is a library out there that gets Mongoose and TypeScript to work together a little bit more nicely.
But I kind of want to limit the number of libraries that we are using for this project.
So we are going to manually get Mongoose and TypeScript to interact.
It's not really that hard.
Just a little bit of configuration.
But unfortunately it involves writing out a decent amount of code that is kind of challenging to understand
inside of a single file.
So we're going to take a quick pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and start to write out this mongoose user model.
I'm going to do my best to make sure that all this code that we write is as crystal clear as can be.
The good news here is that with the code that we're about to write out, we're going to duplicate throughout
all these different services, we create about five, six, seven times.
So even if this first implementation of a model with Mongoose is confusing, well, we're going to get
a lot of practice doing it.
So quick pause right here.
Let's set up that user model with Mongoose in the next video.